# First steps with Tensorflow
Training a neural network revolves around the following concepts:

1. First, low-level tensor manipulation—the infrastructure that underlies all modern machine learning. This translates to TensorFlow APIs:
    - Tensors, including special tensors that store the network’s state (variables)
    - Tensor operations such as addition, relu, matmul
    - Backpropagation, a way to compute the gradient of mathematical expressions (handled in TensorFlow via ``GradientTape`` object)

2. Second, high-level deep learning concepts. This translates to Keras APIs.
    - *Layers*, which are combined into a model
    - An *optimizer*, which defines the feedback signal used for learning
    - *Metrics* to evaluate model performance, such as accuracy
    - A *training loop* that performs mini-batch stochastic gradient descent

## Constant tensors and variables

1.  Create Tensors: To do anything with TensorFlow, we need tensors. Tensors need to be created with some initial values
e.g.
- all-ones or all-zeros
- or tensers of values drawn from a random distribution

````python
import tensorflow as tf
x=tf.ones(shape=(2,1)) # equivalent to np.ones(shape=(2,1))
x=tf.zeros(shape=(2,1))
x=tf.random.normal(shape=(3,1), mean=0., stddev=1.)
x=tf.random.uniform(shape=(3,1), minval=0., maxval=1.)


````

A significant difference between NumPy arrays and TensorFlow tensors is that TensorFlow tensors aren’t assignable: they’re constant.
To train a model, we’ll need to update its state, which is a set of tensors. If tensors aren’t assignable, how do we do it? That’s where variables come in.
***tf.Variable*** is the class meant to manage modifiable state in TensorFlow.

2. Create variables: To create a variable, you need to provide some initial value, such as a random tensor.

````python
v=tf.Variable(initial_value=tf.random.normal(shape=(3,1)))
v.assign(tf.ones(shape=(3,1)))
v[0, 0].assign(3)
v.assign_add(tf.ones((3,1)))
````


## Tensor operations: Doing math in Tensorflow
Very similar to numpy

````python
a=tf.ones((2,2))
b=tf.square(a)
c=tf.sqrt(a)
d=b+c
e=tf.matmul(a,b) # Take the product of two tensors
e *=d
````





